I've heard that one baby mountain
gorilla that was recently kidnapped was
rescued and is now being kept near the
park headquarters I want to find out how
she's being looked after and whether one
day she'll be reintroduced to the wild
this is three year old Myesha park staff
were tipped off that she was for sale
and rescued her from the cave where she
was secretly hidden
Myesha is cared for 24/7 by staff from
the mountain gorillas veterinary program
the Dian Fossey gorilla fund
International and the park authorities
the vets here are world-class experts in
gorilla medicine but caring for mountain
gorillas in captivity is not easy few
have survived to adulthood so Myesha is
watched closely
primatologist Alicia Lilly is one of the
many dedicated people monitoring
myesha's progress when she came in she
was very stressed in a fragile state and
when an infant is in that state they
need to be assist psychologically and
they need to be assessed physically by
the veterinarians to determine the best
way to help her recover one of the tests
Alicia does is to introduce my issue to
novel things like a new toy or a scary
stranger and see how she responds today
alicia has asked me to be that scary
stranger step forward
step forward step forward stop now do
the scary stranger face okay come back
please thank you
unfazed I know it's wonderful
she was cautious and suspicious as she
should have been with you but she was
not fearful and that's what we want to
see she just thought there's another
crazy human but they have to be seen a
few play is a good thing it's a healer
and I was very pleased to see her
playing and showing play faces baby
because not only is she receiving play
but she's instigating play I think we'd
all like this job being her play well
this is the fun stuff today
yeah Alicia and her colleagues have a
moral dilemma a life in captivity is not
ideal for Myesha
but reintroducing her to the wild is
very risky she could be rejected injured
or even killed
what are your plans for Myesha
well our immediate plans are to help her
recover from her psychological trauma
but I am very hopeful right now that she
can go into a social group of other
gorillas and everything we're doing
every step of the way works clearly
toward the goal or the hope and at some
point in the future she can go into the
wild but that's a step by step process
but she's doing very well now
you